>> Humans have the capacity to
damage the world in a way that
no other creature on Earth can.
>> It's that disconnect we have
thinking that we are separate
from nature, thinking that
we are superior to nature.
>> We're interconnected
by water,
by diverse relationships with
the animals that inhabit them,
as well as the trees.
>> Everything we do is either
helping or hurting the planet.
We can't outgrow this planet.
This is it.
>> The Earth has been around for
about 4 and 1/2 billion years,
but humans, just a tiny
fraction of that time.
In other words, if this
line is the entire history
of the Earth, this is how
long humans have been around.
My name is Dylan.
And I'm like you, one of the 7
and 1/2 billion people living
here.
In the short time we've been on
Earth, we've shaped the world.
How we connect
with our planet is
going to determine our fate and
the fate of everything living
here.
>> The mad dash into a
Walmart store knocked shoppers
to the ground.
Shoppers charged ahead
fixated on door buster deals.
>> Within seconds, Black Friday
had descended into chaos,
where it's become the biggest
shopping day of the year.
[LAUGHING AND CROWD NOISE]
>> Oh my god.
>> Stuff, even though humans
haven't been on Earth very
long, we've made a lot of stuff.
But it wasn't always this way.
For most of history, humans
were tied to the natural world
around them.
That meant they
kept close to home,
farmed their food locally.
And the success of the village
depended on the various skills
of the people that lived there.
Then around the year 1800,
there was a major turning point
in history.
That's when the Industrial
Revolution began.
Coal production grew.
The steam engine was born.
Factories were
built. Iron was used.
And things like the
telegraph were invented.
>> For the first time in the
history of manufacturing,
a number of large production
machines electronically
controlled were functioning
simultaneously as an integrated
production line.
>> Mechanical spinners and
weavers that now make thousands
of times as much clothing as
could be made 200 years ago,
power machines to help
process and preserve food
and to transport it, so that
neither season nor distance can
shut off an adequate supply.
>> So what's the problem with
making life a little easier?
Innovation is good, right?
Well, the thing is,
when life got easier
and we could live farther and
farther away from each other,
it created more people,
a lot more people.
You see, it took thousands of
years for the world population
to reach around
800 million people.
But with the
Industrial Revolution,
it took only a couple hundred to
reach a staggering 7.5 billion.
Just to give you an
idea of what this means,
we're going to put a counter
down the bottom of the screen.
It's going to count
how many babies
have been born just since this
video started, more humans that
are going to need clothing,
a place to live, food to eat,
lots and lots of stuff.
>> Compared to my grandparents,
who were very careful,
very thrifty, and saved,
reused everything,
the post-World War
II generations,
my generation and my
parents' generation,
had a cultural norm
that was more is more.
It was a culture of
advertising and of abundance
and not understanding
that there was
a limit in terms of resources.
>> We spend billions of dollars
buying stuff to try to buy
something that can't be bought.
>> Kids are told pretty directly
through advertising that they
are bombarded with on
many different media that,
to be happy, they need to buy
things, buying new clothes,
buying new electronics,
buying happiness.
>> Hey, parents, it's going
to be a big school year.
See, I'm not just teaching
woodwinds and strings.
I'm teaching attitude.
If your kids want to sound
cool, they have to look cool.
>> We know how to make going
back to school perfect.
>> And by perfect, it
means knowing I'm in style.
>> Always looking good.
>> Wearing just
the right outfit.
>> The stuff that we bring into
our lives is something we need
to be more mindful of.
>> Every product that we
have has a story, right?
A piece of clothing isn't
just a piece of clothing
that's in a store where
there are retail employees.
It's a whole system of
people that make it,
the cut and sew,
the transportation
to get that piece of textile
from point A to point B.
And then even further
back, it's farmers
that are growing this
textile to make this product.
And very often, we only see
what's right in front of us.
>> We've got to start thinking
about how much resource it
takes to harvest things
out of the Earth.
>> To make paper and
cardboard, we cut down trees.
To make plastics, we dig out
oil, coal, and other resources.
To make clothes, we use
plants, animal skins, and more.
To make computers and phones,
we mine metals, use plastics,
and lots of other things.
The problem is there's
only one Earth.
So if we run out of
materials, that's it.
Plus, just making stuff
creates waste, a lot of waste.
>> If a new item
is manufactured,
there's waste in that
manufacturing process.
There's waste in the shipping
process to get it to the user.
And it comes in packaging that
the user then takes the item
out of, and that becomes waste.
>> The weekend sees the online
shopping fest that's bigger
than Thanksgiving
and Black Friday.
>> 2 and 1/2 times larger than
Black Friday and Cyber Monday
combined.
>> Alibaba's Singles Day
promises 15 million listings
from more than 140,000
different brands.
>> It is a huge event, the
world's largest single day
focused on online shopping.
>> But there is an environmental
downside to the online shopping
festival.
According to
Greenpeace, research
shows that in 2016,
Double 11 produced
258,000 tons of CO2 because
of transportation and waste
management.
That's the equivalent of
2 and 1/2 million trees.
>> What we're buying
when we buy products,
we're buying containers.
>> It's crazy when you get a
package in the mail and you
have a little teeny item
and it's packaged in plastic
and then a box and
then another box.
>> When things get shipped,
we take a packaged product
and then wrap more layers around
it like foam or plastic bags.
And then all of that
goes into a box.
That uses even more resources
and creates more waste.
And not only that, if
you think about it,
we use a lot of resources
to make some things that
are used just one single time.
>> One use disposable plastics
are a really big problem.
>> Single use plastic bags
in grocery stores and plastic
water bottles are the largest
contributors of ocean pollution
in the world.
We need to get a hold of that.
>> There are 500 million plastic
straws that are used every day
in America.
And that adds up very quickly.
>> Once you inherit that
disposable mentality and really
feed it on a daily basis,
you start treating everything
as disposable.
Thousands of years from
now, if you look back
at this time period,
you might just
see a lot of junk and waste
as the layer of humanity.
And that's not a
legacy that we should
be proud to leave behind.
>> (SINGING) It's a special
little treat when we get to eat
the paper.
Yes, indeed.
So if you've got a
cup or a napkin or bag
that you don't think you
need, don't forget to feed,
don't forget to feed
the wasts baskets.
>> Often, when things
go into a trash bin,
they become invisible.
That idea of away,
things go away.
People.
Think once it leaves your hand,
it's an issue of yours anymore.
>> When you throw garbage out,
it'll get picked up by a giant
truck.
And then that truck will then
bring your garbage sometimes
to a train, which will
then carry your garbage
to a landfill far, far
away, which could sometimes
be a few hours or a
few days trip even.
That's a lot of fuel and
a lot of carbon emissions.
>> Landfills are generating
a lot of methane.
They're the third
largest generator
of methane gas in the
United States right now.
This is a huge problem.
We really don't
want to be putting
more things into our landfills
and creating all this methane
gas.
>> Methane gas is one of the
leading causes of climate
change.
And climate change is
already causing huge problems
around the planet.
But it's not just what's going
into the air from landfills.
It's also what's
going into the ground.
>> What happens at the bottom
of a landfill is there's a lot
of liquid that builds up.
And sometimes landfills do have
tears or rips at the bottom.
So that liquid gets
released into the soil
and then makes its way
throughout the land and then
into the underground water
and then, eventually,
the water supply.
>> Landfills are also a problem
because we are starting to run
out of space.
So in our county right
now, our landfill
only has a few more years before
it's actually going to be full.
>> Landfills have become huge
manmade mountains of trash.
But as big as they are,
they fill up all the time.
So we take over more land,
create new landfills,
throw away more trash.
It seems crazy, doesn't it?
Here's a question for you.
Think of something that
we can't live without yet
we throw it away
by the truckloads.
What is it?
Food.
>> In the United States, I
think it's about 40% of food
produced, it's all wasted.
>> 40% of our food is being
thrown away every year
in the United States.
>> It's all thrown out, left to
scraps, thrown in the dumpster.
>> For every piece
of food wasted,
all of the energy and
the resources that went
into growing it, trucking
it, packaging it,
and then disposing
of it are all wasted.
>> I think it's our disconnect
to nature and also this
illusion of abundance, of
infinite abundance where we
think that all the shelves
of the stores are ever
replenishing and it's going
to continue to stay that way,
so we treat it as such.
>> When you get all your
food at the grocery store,
it's easy to forget that it
all originates from the earth.
But as more and more
people live here,
we need more and more
resources to feed everyone.
>> Right now, we're in
transition from an era of food
abundance to one of scarcity.
By 2050, we're going to need
about 70% more food production
to feed our booming population.
>> 70% more food is a problem.
And here's why.
The Earth is a big place.
But about 3/4 of it is water.
As you can imagine,
the oceans are not
a good place to grow food.
The 1/4 that's land,
well, a lot of that
is mountains, swamps,
and other places
that are tough to grow on.
So in reality, only
about 3 and 1/2 percent
of the entire Earth's
surface can easily
be used for agriculture.
That has led to something
called intensive farming.
>> What intensive farming is
is you take a piece of land
and you maximize the
production of that land as much
as possible.
>> Farms became big business.
And now we have these big
conglomerate of farms,
and that's driven a big
investment in fertilizers
and the kinds of items
that aren't good for us,
aren't healthy for us.
And the small farms
are disappearing.
>> In order to prepare these
huge fields for new crops,
factory farms repeatedly
till the soil.
Seems like a good thing, right?
Actually, it's not.
>> When you over till, you
are turning up the life
in the soil.
And that exposes that life,
which holds the soil together,
to sunlight and
kills that soil life.
And eventually, what
you're left with is dirt.
And there's a difference
between soil and dirt.
Soil is living.
Dirt is not living.
>> And that was one of the
great lessons of the 1930s,
the Dust Bowl.
The farmers used their
machines to plow the land.
The tilled soil turned to dust.
And the winds blew it into
a giant choking blizzard.
And the other thing
about tilling,
since it kills off the organisms
and nutrients in the soil,
farmers have to spray chemical
fertilizers on the crops.
>> It's man trying
to conquer nature.
So man is trying to strictly
control the natural world
by spraying chemicals, by
spraying things like pesticides
and herbicides that are
going to kill things
in the natural world.
>> It's that disconnect we have
thinking that we are separate
from nature, thinking that
we are superior to nature,
thinking that we are somehow
dominant to the natural world.
>> No chemical is totally
safe all the time everywhere.
But with a world wide
shortage of food,
we need chemicals like
potassium sorbate.
Without chemicals, life
itself would be impossible.
>> Those chemical fertilizers
and nitrates and chemical
pesticides that are water
soluble are leaching
into the groundwater.
And they flow down that river.
Then that nitrate would affect
the ecosystem of that watershed
and destroy keystone species,
for example, like our salmon.
>> You have to look at farming
and industry, shipping,
et cetera.
All of those things are
producing some level
of contaminants
and pollutants that
are not natural to the
systems that they're entering.
And when we put something into
a system that's not natural,
it can cause negative impacts.
>> Eventually, the water and the
chemicals end up in the ocean.
In some areas like
the Gulf of Mexico,
so many chemicals end
up there that it creates
something called a dead zone.
That doesn't sound
very good, does it?
Well, it's not.
>> There's a huge
dead zone there,
which really means that
there's no oxygen in the water.
So a lot of the fish and
marine life simply die.
>> We also eat a lot of fish.
The problem with that is there
are over 7 billion of us.
And we've become very good at
catching huge amounts of fish,
the same fish that lots of
other animals rely on for food.
>> At the whale museum, one of
the things that we focus on is
stewardship for a marine
ecosystem known as the Salish
Sea.
And our primary focus is
an endangered population
of whales known as the
southern resident killer whale.
And in our region, not only
are these whales endangered,
but all of our runs
of salmon are also
threatened or endangered.
So you have an endangered whale
looking for an endangered fish.
So we're really concerned about
the health of an ecosystem
not just from the toxics
and pollutions level,
but we're also concerned
from sustainability
and overconsumption
and mismanagement.
>> This is all
sounding pretty bad.
But we've only talked about
half of the food problem.
Remember, we don't just eat
fruits, vegetables, and fish.
Billions of us also eat meat.
>> (SINGING) America
comes home to Holly Farms.
It's the taste as
welcome as two open arms.
>> In order to keep up with the
meat demand for a few billion
people, big factory farms
for animals were built.
And just like
factory crop farms,
one of their goals is
to maximize production.
>> Where you get your milk,
where you would get your meat,
they usually don't come from
animals on this beautiful farm
underneath the sun in
this lush atmosphere.
If you're doing the
research online,
you'll see videos of
what a factory farm looks
like from the inside.
And it's really not pretty.
For example, chickens, they
have to burn off their beaks
so that they can't
peck each other.
>> Most dairy cows spend
their lives in barren pens,
standing in dirt, mud,
and their own waste.
>> Those animals are
in confined areas.
And when any population is
in a small amount of area,
it has limited
resources to operate on.
Manure concentrations can
increase, for example.
And that's something
that we frequently
see in small feedlots is
there's lots of manure.
And there isn't necessarily
a good place to put it.
>> You're looking at a lake
of toxic pig feces and urine
the size of four
football fields.
That's because thousands
upon thousands of pigs
are inside of these buildings.
Their waste falls through
slats in the concrete floor
and it's flushed directly into
this giant open air cesspool.
>> Industrial agriculture is
one of the biggest pollutants
in the world.
And if we don't care about
where our food's coming from,
we're going to lose
our environment.
We're going to lose the benefits
we get out of our environment.
And we're not going
to be healthy people.
>> This all seems
a little scary.
And it's easy to feel helpless.
But there's a word
you should know about,
a word that can give
us hope for the future.
That word is sustainability.
And it's the key to fixing
all of the problems we've
talked about.
>> The definition for
sustainability, for me,
means being mindful of my
whole ecosystem that I'm a part
of, that my family's a part of.
>> Sustainable means living
in a way that can be continued
for indefinitely.
>> It means making sure that
I'm being as thoughtful as I can
in the purchases
that I'm making.
>> It is essentially the
capacity for humans and nature
to endure and prosper
both short and long term.
And ultimately, it
is the difference
between life and death.
>> The scope of the
challenge is overwhelming.
I think especially for young
people but even for adults,
it is a huge burden to take
on to try and save the planet
from imminent destruction.
>> The thing to remember is
that everything connects.
What happens on
Earth affects you.
And what you do
affects the Earth.
And once we understand
the damage we're doing,
we can make the
smart choices that
make living here sustainable.
And that's the good news.
There are lots and lots of
things we can do right now,
especially kids.
>> We got to get kids out
from behind their desks,
out from the walls
of their classrooms,
and into the real world.
>> This is our green team,
our team of green team.
Our green team
created this program
where we teach
younger and older kids
where to put the trash and
recycling and their food.
>> We've already been able to
divert over 50% of the items
here on our campus
away from landfills.
That's an increase
of 42% so far.
>> Keeping things out of the
landfill is one step towards
sustainability.
Instead of throwing
everything into the trash can,
take a minute to
use recycling bins.
And if you really want to
see how much you throw away,
you can do something
called a trash audit.
That's where you literally
open up your trash bags
and inventory what it is
you're sending to a landfill.
>> You have this bag where
everything is the same.
And when it's all mixed
together, it's all trash,
and it all has to end
up in the landfill.
But as you're
picking through it,
you get to really see
the amount of materials
that we're throwing
out as garbage and end
up getting landfillled that
can be recycled or diverted.
And it's really eye
opening to get it
laid out all in front of you.
The zero waste
schools is a program
that just launched this
fall in 100 schools
in Brooklyn and Manhattan.
And it's our first
attempt at really
pushing the city and our
schools to achieve zero waste.
So we define zero waste
here with zero waste schools
as by diverting
every material that
comes into the school that's
recyclable or compostable
leaving us with a very
small percentage of waste
that actually needs to
end up in a landfill.
>> So we can recycle
and we can compost.
Most of us are familiar
with recycling.
But what is composting?
That's sort of like nature's
version of recycling.
Anything that was
once a living thing,
like most of our
food or yard waste,
can be gathered together.
And the natural cycle of life
eventually decomposes it.
What you're left with is
something truly amazing.
It turns it all into rich soil.
>> Soils are so important
for us right now.
We are depleting our
soils through some
of our farming practices.
We really need the compost
to help replenish our soils.
>> The next time you throw away
some food, think about this.
The food that's lost or
wasted around the world
is enough to feed
over 3 billion people.
A big part of all
that wasted food
comes from places like
restaurants and grocery stores.
So some organizations
are stepping in
to help by actually
picking up that food waste
and taking it to be composted.
>> As far as
compostable material,
we're picking up all food
waste from fruits and vegetable
peels, coffee grounds, coffee
filters right through shells
and meat and bones.
>> So far, we've collected about
630,000 pounds of oyster shell,
which all would have been in
the landfill had we not taken it
out of the waste stream.
>> We picked up about
16 tons of food waste.
>> Another great way you can
reduce your trash is to buy
products that don't
have a ton of packaging.
Lots of things you
get at the store
have extra packaging
that ends up as waste.
>> I have students that walk
up to me, just the other day,
he bought some type of Oreo
product and it was double
wrapped.
The individual cookie
was wrapped individually,
and then they put it
in another package.
He's says, I can't believe
they did this, Mr. Walters.
I said, see this phone number
on the back, call them.
Tell them to stop it.
>> And now some stores are
opening that sell things with
no packaging at all.
>> We started this company
because we wanted to be
actionable about making zero
waste living easy for every
kind of person.
>> Every single product,
we like to try to provide
an alternative and say that you
always have a choice and you
always make an impact.
But whether or not that
impact is positive or negative
is up to you.
>> Some of the stores in
California are starting
to offer products that you
can bring your own container.
>> But let's stop for a minute
and think about one really good
way to eliminate trash and
live a sustainable life.
Actually, the answer
is kind of obvious.
Just don't buy certain products.
>> Reducing your waist could
be as simple as saying no.
So that doesn't have to
cost anything at all.
So saying no to single use
disposable straws and bags
and to-go containers.
>> One use plastic bags that you
take home from a grocery store
or another store are easily
replaced when you can bring
your own bag.
And then straws, we could easily
replace them with paper straws
or compostable straws.
>> If you go to a
restaurant with your family
and you're like, you know,
I want a drink but no straw,
please.
I don't want the
single use napkin.
There are things that you
can do in your own life.
>> Our next year's project is
to go up Garnett and Pacific
Beach, which is home to many,
many bars and restaurants,
and get them to reduce or
eliminate straws altogether.
>> Convenience has become more
of just the conditioning that
we've inherited from
society, from our parents,
from our friends.
>> You could also refuse
cheap plastic toys.
>> It's not really something
that's going to last.
Most of those items,
you're either over it
or it's broken within the first
half an hour of acquiring it.
And then it's a trash item.
>> And refusing products
applies to clothing too.
That means ignoring the
pressure to always have
the latest fashion.
>> Right now in the
clothing industry,
we have something
called fast fashion.
>> The fast fashion industry
is encouraging this culture
of disposable clothing, which
is incredibly resource, time,
and labor intensive.
>> You don't need to be buying a
new t-shirt every three months,
which is kind of what the
fashion industry would like you
do.
>> So to be sustainable, we
should refuse to buy stuff that
hurts the planet,
reduce how much we buy,
and recycle the things we have.
But there's one
more option, reuse.
Things you might think of as
trash might just be the thing
somebody else needs.
That's what they do at a
place called The Exchange.
>> The beauty of The Exchange is
rather than throwing something
away and single use mentality,
we are going to save those
things and redistribute them
to people that may want or need
them.
When we take an item
in The Exchange,
there's no packaging
involved with it.
And the item goes
back out the door.
It's the same item, but you
eliminate the production waste,
the transportation waste,
and the distribution waste.
The hope is to divert up to
10% of the current waste stream
just by saving those
items that are reusable,
that are still good, and
that someone else would want.
>> OK, we've heard some
really great ideas on reducing
or eliminating waste.
Now let's talk about something
we all like to do, eat.
Remember when we said that we
were going to need 70% more
food in the coming decades?
How do we make enough
without taking over more land
and using more chemicals?
>> The way we're doing it now
is we're relying on chemical
inputs and technological
fixes, so that we could feed
the population we have.
But that won't sustain
itself for very long.
Organic small scale farming
really can feed the world.
Permaculture does work.
>> Organic small scale
farming, permaculture,
let's take a look at exactly
what those things are.
>> Organic is really just a
fancy way of saying normal
food.
That's all it really means.
I mean, it's the food that
our great, great grandfathers
and all the generations
before that ate.
That's essentially
what organic means.
>> Most of the time
when people say,
what is organic
agriculture, they think, oh,
it's you don't spray chemicals.
You don't spray
chemical fertilizer.
herbicides or pesticides.
That's true to an extent.
But you're also doing
a lot more than that.
>> Nature knows how to
grow things really well.
After all, the Earth was
covered with dense vegetation
for billions of years
before humans existed.
And when we grow food
using nature's secrets,
that's permaculture.
>> Permaculture means you're
farming in a way to emulate
nature.
And so, you're copying
natural principles that exist
and putting them into
an agricultural space.
So on our farm, we have fields.
We have wetlands.
We have zones where
we can have songbirds
live, so little forested areas.
We have open fields.
We have large trees
for birds of prey.
So we've created all
these different habitats
for all of these
different creatures.
And all of these creatures
help manage the farm.
>> You set up an ecosystem
and it runs itself.
>> In this youth
garden behind me,
we actually have two
hugelkultur mounds.
And a hugelkultur
mound is a design
where you are emulating a
nursery log in a forest,
essentially.
So for us, we put deadwood.
Then we put woodchip.
And then we put dirt
and then compost.
And so, in the
summertime, the water
that has been stored in that
wood, the deadwood that's
decomposing inside
your mound will
be able to act-- it acts as
a sponge and then is released
on hot days, so plants
can have access to water.
So essentially, you're trying
to create a system that you
don't need to ever water.
>> And here's the great
thing, sustainable farming is
something everyone can do
at home or even at school.
>> Island Grown Schools has
been working on bringing garden
education into the
public schools.
They run a school
garden at each school,
so kids actually get
to experience planting
and harvesting vegetables.
>> You can grow your own
food, whether it's outside
in a garden or there's
some small indoor systems.
>> I help with the garden.
We grow a lot of
our own food there,
like tomatoes, cucumbers.
We have lettuce there.
>> If you start with that and
you grow your first carrot
and you experience the joy
of pulling that carrot out
of the ground for the first
time, you'll be hooked.
And that carrot,
I guarantee you,
will be the sweetest
carrot you've ever eaten.
On average, American cities can
produce 50% of their own food
just in your front
yard or your backyard
or on your roof in some cases.
>> Think about how much time and
effort we put into making sure
our yards are covered
with perfect green grass.
But what if we make some or all
of our yards into garden space?
Think about how much
food we could produce.
>> We are here on our
40 acre plus farm.
And behind us is our 32,000
square foot hydroponic
aquaponic greenhouse.
>> We're growing crops
indoors, so growing things like
hydroponic lettuce and
strawberries, cucumbers, herbs.
>> So we can grow our
own food year round.
And we basically provide
a lot of that food
for free to some of the shelters
and some of the food pantries.
And then we also sell it at
very low cost to the schools,
so that the schools can
incorporate good healthy greens
for kids year round.
And you could say,
well, why can't we
just fly it in from California?
Well, think about the
carbon impact of that.
Think about the
environmental impact of that.
So what we really want to do
is become more self-sufficient.
>> Just south of the Hague
in the Westland region
of the Netherlands, miles upon
miles of greenhouses are spread
across the landscape.
They've been built by Dutch
farmers as part of a 20 year
movement by the country to
pursue sustainable agriculture
by growing indoors.
Growing techniques have helped
foster an indoor growing
boom in the Netherlands.
Greenhouses now produce 35%
of the country's vegetables,
despite occupying less
than 1% of its farmland.
>> Growing food indoors
has huge benefits.
You can grow more food in less
space than you can outdoors.
Plus, crops are protected
from bad weather and insects.
And the water used
can be recycled.
That all means that
more of your food
can come from a local source.
>> There's definitely a savings
when you're buying products
from your local community versus
shipping in products that are
grown sometimes nationally or
sometimes even internationally.
They looked at some
frozen asparagus thinking
that, hey, this is a
great thing to give kids
a chance to try asparagus.
It's not something that's
normally on the menu.
Well, it turns
out that asparagus
was grown in South America,
shipped to China for freezing
and processing, and then
shipped back to the US.
So it had this massive
food miles on it.
>> Much of the food you find
on the shelves that is raw,
it's been picked away too early.
It's not as nutritious.
The reason why food
is picked up early
is because it has to
survive the transportation.
So it's traveled hundreds
if not thousands of miles
to hit your shelves.
If they pick it when it's
supposed to be picked
and it's actually ripe,
it's going to soften.
It won't be-- no
one's going to buy it.
>> If you want to
really be sustainable,
if you want to help the Earth,
you need to grow your own food.
>> But what about
meat or seafood?
Should we raise
animals in our yard?
The answer to this
is a little tricky.
It's pretty obvious,
but remember
that animals have to eat too.
We have to grow food just
for them, a lot of food.
In fact, in the United States,
about 95% of all oat production
and 80% of all corn production
is used just to feed animals.
Here's something to think about.
If we stopped eating meat
and used all of the crops
to feed people
instead of animals,
we could feed an additional
4 billion people, 4 billion.
Some people think
we need to eat meat
in order to get enough protein.
But in reality, the
protein we get from meat
is actually just the protein the
animals got by eating plants.
Plus, there are some negative
effects to our bodies
when we eat meat.
>> Meat, it turns out, is
actually the leading cause
of chronic illnesses
in the country.
It's a meat-based diet.
So if you do eat meat, it's OK.
You know, don't start
judging yourself.
But you could try doing
things like a meatless Monday.
You could try a
weekday vegetarian
or just try purchasing meat that
is more local or at least more
sustainably raised.
>> I would challenge people
to try a meat free day,
just one day.
Just try it.
See if you can do it.
I think you can.
>> Making informed
choices about what we eat,
what we put on our plate,
what we purchase in the stores
or in restaurants goes a long
way collectively to better
managing our ecosystems.
>> We humans are
pretty powerful.
Our amazing innovative spirit
has made life a lot easier.
But we're so good at it, we've
created unsustainable growth.
In fact, in just the time
we've been watching this video,
over 8,000 babies
have been born.
The good news is that we can
use our knowledge to fix things.
>> It's really going
back to our roots.
It's going back to our intrinsic
nature, which is nature.
And that's ultimately
where we come from,
where everything we have, know,
love, and live for comes from.
>> Everything connects.
So what you do really
does make a difference.
And if you need
more inspiration,
our website has lots of ideas
on what kids can do right now.
>> I think the most important
thing is to realize that
it's the individual actions,
your individual actions that
can really make a difference.
>> You can help make this a
world that works well together,
that eliminates waste,
that is truly sustainable.
>> I think that it's possible
that this generation of kids
are seeing our generation and
seeing that they want to do it
differently.
>> Kids can save the planet.
>> Some of our most creative
thinkers and problem solvers
are kids.
>> I believe that student led
activism is an example for all
of us of how to
change the world.
>> Kids can save the planet.
>> Imagine how wonderful
it would be to know that
you're the generation
that saved the planet.
[COUNTER TICKING]